---
layout: post
title: "The End"
date: 2017-03-31 19:34:00 +0600
categories: jekyll
---

*Written after my first year of college at St. Joseph Higher Secondary School.*

> (When you find “The End” in a story, you quit reading it, right? You’re welcome to do so in this case too. Because there’s no point in wasting your time on something that is already over. I am warning you, this is a big post. Unless you want to waste your time, I think you shouldn’t continue. But if you do have time, please do read it; at least for giving it a purpose. Anyway, what this is, is a brief summary of a very important time of my life that has come to an end.... it can be called a diary i guess, without the specific dates. Read at your own risk.)
 
So, I guess it's over, right? I am officially being kicked out of first year. "On this day a year ago, where were you? You were waiting for your results after the SSC exams. And now here you are today, after getting your results, being admitted in college and passing the 8 months of your 11th class, here you are, about to end it." ... Well, principal sir was correct, but not entirely for me.

A year before, all I could think about was my old school. Not for the memories, but for making a 3D model of the school building. Yes, I was blinded (I guess I still am) by the greatness of being a 3D animator and a graphics designer. I was so focused on practicing to create the virtual world that reality became boring. "I will create the world of heroes... not just the ordinary heroes, the super ones.”..... "Why can't people imagine the superheroes flying over the skies of Bangladesh?”..... Yes... this was totally my mind back then.

Truth to be told, I don't think I had the slightest of will to get into college and study. I was trying to get into NDC after my results. But trust me it was for my parents. I had hopes that they will let me concentrate on what I want(which they didn’t) if I got into a better college and university later on.... but I didn't actually had that much enthusiasm for NDC. Besides, it doesn't quite feel nice enough to have a look at the most famous college of the country when you realized that you've lost your pictures just when you're about to stick them to the form. So my experience from form-filling for NDC was not a pleasant one. Next, I went to Joseph. The area was quite silent on the day of the form distribution. Not what I expected after the NDC experience. I went inside through the 3rd gate. The form was in my hand after I just bought it. There was absolutely no crowd on that evening. Going farther in the campus I found out some wall magazines... not some... a lot of them..... I was amazed... because the area was quiet and it let me blend my mind into whatever the hell I wanted. I was just seeing the designs, not focused on what contents they actually possess, just seeing how many there were! It was amazing. I came towards the basketball court, and then found out that there was a "wall magazine fest 2016" going on. Then I stopped and looked at the campus standing between the north and the south building. The campus was small.... a lot smaller than my school. But ... but still the architecture was amazing.... I knew right away it would take me an entire year to build this in 3D.... whereas I made my school building in two months. Then I started reading the wall magazines.... it got fascinating and fascinating...... and then I couldn't believe my eyes...... there was a whole magazine for DC comics featuring not only the main characters but also covers of many comics from the DC's Golden Age. I knew right then, this is the home of the heroes that lives in our imaginations.

The admission exams went just as expected. I was confident with my written exams at NDC. I knew that nobody in that room did better than me judging everyone's expressions afterwards. In the viva I was asked, "Why have you come to study here?" I replied the truth saying that I came here because of my parents. And it guaranteed my not-getting-admitted case. In Saint Joseph, written part was good as well. In the viva I was asked, "Where do you come from? Where is your village?" I replied saying "I come from Magura." I was asked to name some famous persons that came from the same place. I spoke of Shakib Al Hasan. Then the teacher asked, "Is he the only famous person coming from there?" I said, "No. But unfortunately, I can't remember any other right now." He told me to think. I said, "Sorry sir, I can't remember any other person who's famous from Magura. If you are willing to hear of a certain person, then would you please tell me who it is?" He softly said, "Me!" After waiting for half a second, he continued saying, "I am quite famous!" When the results were published, I didn't get a seat on NDC and got a chance to get admitted in Saint Joseph Higher Secondary School. Later I kept thinking, "Did I just get admitted only because I was born in my birthplace? Maybe superheroes really are destined to be here." And thus, by overtaking the first seat of the famous section of Jupiter A, my journey began.

I can still recall my first day of college quite clearly. It was 10th of July, 2016. After the assembly we all gathered in our new classroom of Jupiter-A. The time was around 9:30 in the morning and even before entering the classroom we met our ICT teacher. To put it more dramatically: A boy like me who is obsessed with computers, enters the classroom on his first day at college and finds a woman standing before him who's saying that she's going to teach him a subject, which is supposed to teach him how to use computers! What more could I have expected from a college? Please note that I still didn't have enough inspiration to actually study something. ICT class was not as expected though. It turned out that she's just teaching me changing number bases.... I could do them from class 8. But this not-going-around-the-expectations did give me faith that maybe I will be able to pass off at least one subject without studying. Next was Biology. Ruined my mood again. I admit it's not the teacher’s problem..... It’s my own problem to not to be able to like the subject. And I don't like that problem either. The next class was Math. The subject made me nostalgic for a moment but it faded as the pleasantly plump teacher said that he's supposed to be a scary and feared person, and he is a quite strict in case of discipline. Although he got friendly later on. After that there was break time. After the break we had English class. An excellent teacher. He was smart and (I don't know how else to say it, but) it was like he was covered in an aura of keenness. He took a small and simple exam of us and proved right away how small and simple our knowledge was. This rose up my spirits a bit. Next class: Physics. The teacher seems older than the others. But however he was not lacking energy. Wait, wasn't he... wasn't he the one who went to NASA? I saw his picture on the yearbook I got on the date of admission. The class was good too, and the "Biology effect" almost wore off. Then came in a man with a lot of pride in him to teach Bangla. The class was wonderful and the super awesome recitation cheered me up enough to make me addicted to college in one day.

That first-day-of-the-college feeling never really wore off.... and now I am here at the end of my first year. But I guess the journey hasn't totally ended yet. The classes, classmates, subjects, class tests, practicals..... Almost everything will remain till this December. However I am going to miss the only ones that aren't going to be the same ever very much..... They’re the great teachers I had this year. They were the great seven sages of these 8 months of mine (which are called a year for some uncertain reasons by the way). These wonderful people gave me a lot....

Okay, the next part is kind of like a confession for the teachers. It's just my way of appreciating what you've done for me. I don't know if this will reach everyone or not. But at least I won't have a regret that I didn't get to appreciate your efforts. As I've already lost the best teacher of my life without even saying a thanks, I don't want to weight that pain more.

- To the English teacher:
Thank you sir for all the efforts you've put into teaching us. I do have some idea of the great deal of hard work it takes to create that many presentations, files and above all what it takes to obtain that level of awesome skill. And sir, it does feel nice to be treated as a kid every once in awhile. You are still going to be my guide teacher, so, it’s still not the end of the journey with you either.

- To the Physics teacher:
I know of no other person who has more honesty and a stronger spirit than yours. Not to mention, your ways of teaching is beyond comparison. Your kindness and broad helping hand made you our first option whenever we are in any kind of trouble.

- To the Chemistry teacher:
I'm not the best student in chemistry but I am good enough to see how much effort you put into each of the topics. I think no other classes that I had in these 8 months gave that level of brief and simple lectures. The cause of my lacking in the results is only my own obsession on my computer. And also as a person, you are indeed very very friendly.

- To the Biology teacher:
I repeat once again, it's not your fault that I don't really like biology. But in any case, no matter how hard the situation was, you didn't back off. You continued to give the best you could and that's the best thing about you. Even if it's not my favorite subject, it is a subject of mine and you were my teacher on that subject. Please do forgive me for not being a good student.

- To the Bangla teacher:
Your powerful voice on the first day is what made me to wait so eagerly for the next class. You gave us a very special place in your heart. Which means a lot to us. You tried your best to create a hero in all of us. And that helped me a lot too as I have dreams to make heroes visible to everyone one day. Your sense of morality was also unique. And you took pride in your individuality. Your whole character is a very valuable learning point for us. Thank you for being yourself. And aside from all these thank you for giving us the tasks of presentations. Especially for someone who wants to be a graphics designer and animator, it was a lot of practice.

- To the Math teacher:
You were not only the math teacher for me; you were also my guardian for a week. So you were more than a teacher to me. Thank you for everything you've done for me. In school I lost my favorite teacher and he was also in math dept., so maybe because of arrogance I didn't show you the proper respect I should have. It is of course my personal problem and I ask for forgiveness for that matter. But anyway, you are still the one who has helped me the most in these 8 months. I am grateful for that.

- To the ICT teacher:
I can't actually compare your teachings properly because of all the topics, except for c program structures and some database's features; I knew almost everything from class 8. The government really should increase the curriculum. But yet again, you were kind of a blessing for me; the first class of the first day of the first year of my college was yours. And you were also my very first ICT teacher. I never actually thought that there will be a day when I will get ICT as a compulsory subject. And yet you were the ICT teacher and the first to acknowledge my interests. And I also have another thing to say: No matter how small you think of yourself as, you were all we had till now. That’s something big, believe it!

Today, I am not the me I was a year ago (technically, I am not the me I was even yesterday). We all changed, evolved and honed our skills in this past “first year”; and the biggest contributor to that for me was The Seven Great Sages, my seven teachers. Just as I said before, I didn’t hope for a good college life, But, whoa! It was great! I learned to talk, I learned a lot about being a leader and how it pleases when you get to help others, I learned to handle pressure with ease, and I even learned to fly abroad! (For those who didn’t know: I don’t even leave my room very often.) I got to be the "Avinandan Banerjee” that everyone likes. I’m just grateful for everything, that’s all.

> “The End of The End from the End of My School Life to the End of My First Year College Life”
