---
layout: post
title: "Moving on from The End"
date: 2021-03-24 17:24:00 +0600
categories: jekyll
---

```
Last time I wrote one of these, I was at the end of my first year at college. (Over here: https://www.facebook.com/notes/avinandan-banerjee/the-end/1253258368091086/)
 
This is by no means a continuation of that write-up, these are not even made for the same purpose – however, I really feel like I need to get these words out of my system as the first year of my university life comes to an end. The other one was indeed written for appreciation, and although that also had some selfish bits inside, this time, it’s all about me. Now, I guess it’s obvious by now, but dear reader, if you have something better to do right now than reading this, go do that. This will definitely waste a big chunk of your time of the day, if you wish to read through the end.
```

On 13/01/2018 – I attended my first lecture in BRAC University, but the story of university starts much before. In fact, as with most of us from the country, the university stage of life triggers right after the Higher Secondary results. Nothing out of the ordinary here - the results came in, proved that I wasn’t going to be applying to any public engineering universities, and also gave me a glimpse of what the next couple of months are about to bring. Soon after, it was admission season. These times were probably some of the busiest times of my life. One week I’m in this corner of the country, the next week I was on the other. But as I had to move on to the next area, I was confirming my failures on the previous ones. I’m not going to lie; I enjoyed the country-wide tour of failure most often than never. Somewhere along this trip, I ran out of options. And it was right then, I got the confirmation on Rajshahi University (RU). Without wasting any time, my father hurried me over to get me admitted. It was weird though. Before these university tours, my parents would always keep complaining about how I need to improve my academics, whereas at the time I was decent, albeit not the best of myself. Now that it was so apparent that I was doing bad, they’re complains stopped. I am not grown up enough to know what that means. Did they finally accept me for who I am and what I do? Or did they just give up on me? Or are they too frustrated to even complain? It could be something else entirely. But with this the public university with the largest land-area in the country - had accepted me. As the admission was completed, I was notified of being in the Applied Mathematics department from my subject choice list.

Meanwhile the unrest in the family restarts. My father had gotten information from someone that BRAC University is running their second intake for the spring 2019 semester. He had discussed about me applying here with my mother beforehand, as the public university admissions were closing in. But now that I had admitted in Rajshahi University, my father accepted me staying out of Dhaka. But my mother could not accept, she insisted that I attend the admission test here anyway. And thus my first step into BRACU. The test went too smoothly, I finished before half time and still was fairly confident. I didn’t know a thing about BRACU back then, but I knew that my invigilator was an enthusiastic teacher, who spoke a few words appreciating the current technologies and pointing out the importance of future researchers (using that as a mean to ask us not to cheat). It was new. Of all the admission tests I’ve given, none of the invigilators spoke about the university or their subjects or their interests. And a few days after that, I was called in for viva.

At this point, both of my parents want me to go to BRAC University, I was against that idea - as I didn’t want to end up as a major financial toll on my family. However, a part of me was still imagining that now I have the opportunity to study for a Computer Science and Engineering degree. As I’ve always looked up to my teachers and now was a time when neither me or my parents could end up to a conclusion on our own, I asked my most respected teacher from back in St. Joseph. She knew me the most and I had decided to do whatever she thinks is right. At first she was also concerned about me dropping out midway - when I mentioned about financial concerns. But she said that if I’m completely sure that my family has the ability to pay for me till graduation, CSE in BRACU is a better option. She also said to make this decision very carefully and to double check if I am doing this just for temporary emotional satisfaction. I decided upon BRACU; choosing RU would have been the emotional choice here for me – because it was cheaper. And that’s basically the end for admission times. To this day, I cannot thank her enough for saving my life that day. I literally cannot think of what would have happened if I had left Dhaka for RU. Although there is still a little guilt in a corner of my heart, preventing me to talk to any other teachers from college to this day as most of them know that I have enrolled in RU.

Afterwards, by the orientation program I got to know that my closest friend and my soul-brother had already admitted himself on the Architecture program in BRACU as well. That was the start of my reliefs of choosing BRACU over any other public university. Also on the orientation day, I shared a ride with another stranger who had proven to be having somewhat same interests as me in pop-culture as well. This encounter also strengthened my feelings for BRACU. On the departmental orientation, I got to see that invigilator person again, speaking about the importance of research and projects among students. I hadn’t realized that I may have been arriving here with a long list of failure track record, but BRACU was still home to a bunch of great minds. It was really starting to feel like an achievement. But you get some - you lose some; that’s always how it works. As the days passed by, the precious friends I had from my old days were all going to each their own separate places. It didn’t hurt relationship just yet, but it was beginning to. I started to miss my old classes and my class-mates. I started my classes with a heavy feeling heart with little hope.

```
Whoa, umm, that was more a thousand words and I haven’t even started to talk about my classes yet. Dear reader, please know that I am concerned about whether you should spend your time here or not. Anyway, thanks for tagging along, you can quit anytime you want.
```

The classes were not too far from what I expected, the communication driven English course was probably the most interesting one, with the other courses of Mathematics and Physics along with my first heading into CSE course was nice. The most astonishing event was the revelation of the fact that my CSE110 lab faculty was again, the same person as the previously mentioned invigilator. I was shocked, a little bit, the whole university thing suddenly felt a lot smaller, sure, there are a lot of people here, but a part of me started thinking that not all of them mattered. This invigilator/lab faculty had his own weird way of getting us to complete the lab tasks, all of the written copies were to be checked by himself, in his office, so we were to have a weekly meet up in his office anyway, and he got to know his students better. It worked. In fact it worked flawlessly for some people of our class, including myself. For me, it sort off blew my mind at how cool this person is, cool in my eyes, I mean, he was totally that nerdy tech guy that everyone runs to when they’re computers will explode any moment now – hoping that he could help, and he actually would. (I can write nice things about him all day, but this writing is about me and my feelings, so not now) Anyway, we developed a great teacher – student connection really fast, and I was glad to have his support. He would take weekly extra classes on Saturdays, and I’d come about 2 hrs early and be in the lab all day, he would ask to meet in his office at least once a week, I’d hang out there whenever I had time – with his presence and permission of course. Till now, I can easily say that the best thing that the university has ever offered me - was him.

The other courses I did, there too I had enough attention from the teachers. Mathematics and Physics was most notable, it took until around the first quiz time for them to start seeing me as one of the “more promising pupils” as I claim myself. It was going as the winter breeze as the literal one, with growing respect and attention to their classes from my side also. The theory part of CSE was also going smoothly with another interesting person. To say the most notable thing about him, he gave us game building projects around the end of the semester, which was unheard of for the first semester, and I absolutely loved it. I developed my skills in programming and problem solving quite a bit with his and the lab teacher’s (yes, I’m going to keep calling him that, because I don’t want any names here) guidance and motivation. I was enjoying my English course, too. It had the most diverse selection of students, and helped me open myself up. So much so that I did a parody of the infamous team rocket introduction “Prepare for trouble, / And make it quadruple… (cont.)” - in my first group presentation. That was a bold move. However, I didn’t just stop there, in my final presentation, too, I overstepped my boundaries. I chose my topic to be “Comics must be introduced as a form of literature in school syllabus” with a lot of bragging of my comics making side and care to the presentation.

On the other side, it was not only about the connection with the teachers, I was getting more involved with other classmates along the way too. Many of them had similar interests - many of them just appreciated my cooperativeness, and many of them I had to hang around just because we had the same classes in the same time. By the end of the semester, I’ll admit I was no part of any huge group or circle, but I had good understanding with a good number of people. And I made good friends among them too. It was a good time for my growing hobby too: customized android home-screen setups. I was a little late sometimes, but I was always committed to having a setup done every week. However, it didn’t last too long, more on this will be continued.

And without any warnings, the month of April came, and my first semester came to an end. Although I was aiming for all ‘A’s, I couldn’t manage to get them in English and Math, but it didn’t hit me as hard as it should have; I was already going through a sudden personal trauma. One day of the script-showing week, my father had a cardiac arrest. I have mixed and complicated feelings about my family. But this hit me hard, more than I could show, obviously. He was fine the previous days, just on the previous night, he just mentioned feeling slight pain on the right of his chest that he guessed was from exercising. The next morning, his pain was too much and his BP was off the charts. We hurried to National Heart Foundation. My mother broke down after the doctor mentioned the arrest, me and my aunt listened. We managed ourselves, the money actually wasn’t that big of a problem, the family got together, his colleagues and our neighbors came to visit too. He was released from the hospital after a stent – and started becoming stable at home. He had a lot of support. However, I still had a lot of that shock still resonating within me, but nobody came.

Aside from that, another big bill was coming my way - the Residential Semester was almost knocking. Even though I had already started to somewhat adjust myself and sort of like the way BRACU works, I still had that negative feeling because it was too expensive. The Residential Semester was the most expensive also. Although the family pulled through, but making my now heart patient father spend that big amount of money on me after his hospital bills, broke me even further. I didn’t want to go to the Savar campus; I knew I would have been more productive around the house now. Also part of me just wanted to lock myself up and… maybe… not… exist… anymore. (?!) But I also made myself believe that probably a broken me should not be around the house, I should be going out and get help – RS was just that.

I went to the Savar campus for my residential semester in the Ramadan. It only took me one whole day to adjust to their system. I’d say it was decent, if I have to comment on it. My dorm supervisor was also a very charismatic person, albeit scary at times. I had rather interesting roommates too. By the first week, they had recognized me as some chilled out geek who always watches movies/cartoon series in his tab. The classes started, and I again had to start over new courses with new faculties. First was Bangla, the teacher seemed a little different. I found that the classmates were all just picked from different English sections of last semester. Well, that was to be expected – given that the BRAC Institute of Language (BIL) single handedly operates the residential semester. Next was English, he was like a default character you get to choose at a game or something like that. You either like him, or you hate him; I was leaning more towards the former. Also by this time we noticed that aside from some, the English section was formed of the same students of the Bangla class. So the same group of 30-something was attending all classes together. The other courses were not language driven ones – Emergence of Bangladesh (EMB) and Ethics and Culture (HUM). I liked they’re teachers as well, although I was a little bit uncomfortable with and scared of my HUM teacher at first, which cleared out gradually. But I was still worrying whether I’ll be able to score good grades from this semester’s courses.

I was making good acquaintances here too. It was almost too easy, because of my growing confidence in communication and also for the fact that RS was strictly designed with communications in mind. Because of the same 30-something people going to the same classes together, most often group works of different subjects would fall on the same group, and therefore, more communication and relying upon one-another. But coming to the RS, I lost my hobby. For the second time, I had to forsake my hobby because something was broken. First, I had to quit 3D designing because my laptop got busted, and now, the problem was me. I tried, hard and harder; but I couldn’t get my mind together for the theme-ing. There was too much going on in my head always. And I had to stop. But I have grown to know myself over the past few years. And I knew, if it’s not one thing, then I’d force myself to go out of my comfort zone and dedicate myself to something else. So I was looking for opportunities without risking my grades.

Scoring good grades was pretty important to me because I was aiming to get the merit based waiver that is offered here at BRACU scaled after the CGPA of the students. I saw it as a good opportunity to lessen my tuition bills. Therefore, I was a little more focused on the cramming everything before the quizzes/any other tests. A few days forward, I was gossiping with a group including another interesting fellow. He was visually impaired while filling the role of the chess instructor of the residential campus’s chess activity. He was interesting to talk to and occasionally he’d share his own interesting ideas for different things. One day, after hearing my event management and organizing experiences from college days, he suggested me to gather around people and organize an intra-RS chess tournament, almost as a challenge; I was intrigued. I contacted someone I knew from college days for his productiveness to support me, along with someone who stood out most among the group that hung around gossiping with this chess instructor and another girl I grew to admire for her openness and, well I want to say for her smartness, but, to be honest, she was there just because a fun person to talk to. The 5 of us got together and made straight-forward plan for a semester-wide tournament.

We started by asking for permission of the authority. This was not going to be like any other unofficial “friendly game tournament”; we needed to use the campus’ rooms, computers, desks, boards and any other resources that we needed. We had to arrange a meeting with the madam in-charge of co-curricular activities in the campus. She appreciated our idea, and volunteered to bring this idea up to the campus director. Next day, we were relieved to have gotten the permission from the director, and with an added bonus, we were asked to arrange once-a-week chess tutorial classes for underprivileged kids from nearby schools. We accepted the request and proceeded with volunteer recruitment and registration or the tournament event. Afterwards, we continued by making match ups and instructing the other volunteers about the plans.

There were ups and downs, but we somehow pulled it off. Everything was going smoothly with the event. I know this was my opportunity that I was seeking for so long. But I was well aware of taking care of my academics as well, since none of the courses in the semester was particularly comfortable for me. The midterms came flying by and I pretty much aced all but Bangla. I got more than 90% and scored either highest or second highest in the sections of English, EMB and HUM, whereas I hardly touched the 60% mark in Bangla. I was disappointed on it; but the feeling didn’t last long. Shortly after the midterm, the pressure almost doubled up. I was barely clinging on to my newfound reputation in my class. It was one thing after another. We got very busy very quick. Along with that, we were losing count on the number of volunteers that were supporting us on the event. The chess instructor was interested to dig deep into the matter as to why students would refuse to volunteer here where it doesn’t ask for that much of effort. He chose one of the ones that opted out and called in a meeting with my old classmate, the one from the gossiping group and the fun one – all the management team but me. I was feeling weird about this. But I understood that he did so because I myself admitted my own weakness in responsible communications. I waited outside while they were discussing matters.

Naturally the person who opted out of volunteering shifted the blame saying that she doesn’t like how another person talks to her. The chess instructor took those words very negatively, and was willing to proceed to take some heavy measures against this other person. This upset the funny one to a great matter. She strongly objected and said it is normal for friends to make fun of one another ever now and then and that the actual reason for the discontinuation of the volunteering is the overwhelming academic pressure that we’re facing at the moment, leaving soon after. She talked a lot to me after this meeting about how she was so disappointed in this chess instructor who was taking action on someone’s words alone, but she insisted that she wasn’t feeling safe in this team and that she’d rather have fun with her friends than to suffer for things she hadn’t done. We had become pretty close friends by this time, so I suggested her, to leave all her duties to me, but don’t show to anyone else that you’re not part of the team, she agreed. The girl from the gossip group, who had found a brother in me by then, supported the other girl’s argument, and that was the end of that weird meeting. We moved on. Eventually, it was time for the grand final event. We needed two people to host the event, a male and a female. I volunteered for the male host, and asked someone from the volunteers to be the co-host. With a successful ending to that, the event was closed. It definitely didn’t go as smooth as my past events, but I wasn’t disappointed.

I achieved a lot from this. I guess this taught me a great lesson on sucking up depression - with discipline and responsibility. Also, as it may seem obvious by now, I made more friends through this. Not only the people from the chess event, I made good friends from the classes too, while becoming closer to the ones I used to hang around with in the first semester. I used my free time to talk to people about my comics and to gossip on about my school/college stories. Occasionally I even used some of these new found friends as emotional punching bags/training dummies while talking everything out off my mind. It definitely helped the recovery process. By the time Residential semester ended, I found myself no longer having any doubt for choosing to be enrolled here. In fact, I was feeling so light in my mind, that I finally enjoyed the Residential campus when it gave its best – the cultural nights. I had a great time sitting with friends, seeing all the different sides of the faces that I had grown to know, even sang along sometimes with the performance.

And my efforts in academics brought the perfect fruits. My marks in Bangla were improving by a great margin, while the other courses’ remained steady. I was somewhat contented after the final exams. After those, it was the last few days of the campus; everyone embraced the fact that we were to leave in the following days. I was glad. It was almost like a training session for me. I went there feeling guilty, confused and broken. Now I had successfully got out of that dark place and had begun to appreciate all that I had, when it came with the ending notice. I wasn’t all that sad, rather was excited. It was like I was about to finally warmed up enough to get my head in the game. However in the rain of the last day in RS, I think the water droplets from the sky were just filling in for something else over my face. There was another sad event coming close. The day we were scheduled to leave from the Savar campus, was also the last day in BRACU for that most admired lab teacher from before. He was going to the US for his PhD. We didn’t want him to leave, but we accepted, he had given more than 9 years to his students.

The newborn hyperactive manager within me came up with a quick plan. All buses from the Savar Campus were to be stopping at the main campus. The residential campus’ fan-club of that teacher was to meet him after we reach there. I asked one of us to go back the previous day so that he could buy a cake before we reach the place. It was hectic to manage that many seats on the first bus, but I did race up there and took the seats, sacrificing my luggage in the process, but those were soon to follow in the next bus. I knew that RS authority was not so irresponsible. Although one of us had to get off mid way because of time problem, the rest reached safely and we went straight to his office. He seemed happy and sad at the same time. But we took some memorable pictures, had the cake and received his signed certificate of great wishes. And the long day was over.

Soon after it was the result publishing date and I had good expectations from myself. As it turned out, I aced most of the tests yet again. The final grades were, an “A-” in Bangla with “A”s in all the others. There were a lot of events that had contributed to this conversion from the constant failure and denied admission tests to this ace of the class that I have skipped on here as this is already a lot of writing. There was the research works in English, the tours for EMB, the dramas for Bangla and HUM. The huge revising sessions before the midterms and finals are also very memorable. But, I feel that these events are better suited to just stay in me for now. With that, the month of August came to pass It was time for the third semester.

This was the first time I had chosen my own courses and sections. I got registered into the next courses of CSE and Math with new courses of Statistics and Discrete Math (from CSE department). The CSE course was under a student of that lab teacher. I had only heard stories about her from that him, for she was in fact, his most favorite student. She was also very well known for her skills in problem solving. Her teaching style was good too. She was a bit slower than the classes I had done before. But she could speed up whenever it was necessary without being hasty. The Math course was under the same teacher as my first semester. He remembered me immediately. And this new course felt like his strong point. The Discrete Mathematics course (coded CSE230) was an interesting one. It reminded me of my old school/college days. The teacher was nice too, although her words may have been a little too difficult for the majority in the class, I have absolutely no complains about her, because of already being somewhat familiar about the topics. I was not feeling the same levels enthusiasm for the Statistics course. However, the teacher seemed fun there too, with his own opinions and preferences where needed giving enough space for accepting others. Just like the first semester, within the first week, the teachers started to acknowledge me for the hard-working pupil I am.

The math teacher’s attention to me was really worth mentioning. In almost every class he’d ask me, and some others to solve the math example before he finishes them on the board. I was responsive too – as I had already been through his teaching style once. I went to his room one of the earlier days and requested him to give me some extra problems to solve. It was on this day that he learned that I was an exceptionally fast paced programming problem solver – although I had been slacking a lot at the time. On the other side, both CSE theory and lab teachers also took note of me pretty early on. And I often felt like I created a bridge for these teachers to reach to the students. One day, I went to the theory teacher to introduce myself with an excuse to solve a problem I found online. And she discussed about a lot of different things to me, and encouraged me to move on with my own pace not following what everyone else was doing. And move on I did – by the end of the semester, I had even finished some of the next courses’ topics. And she had accepted me to be the class ace, which meant believing that I would always get 100% score on anything thrown at him. She was even astonished at how I could trace one seemingly huge code to calculate the correct outputs in a short quiz where no one else in the class could; she even doubted herself on that. And the lab classes were fun too. I would always be one or two days ahead of the class and would occasionally provide simpler, almost cheating-like solutions that didn’t use the complicated process that was being discussed at times. All of these were very fun and enjoyable and all, but I knew I was missing something.

Call me masochist if you want, but I longed for something to fill my pastime that would put me in uncomfortable places where I would develop myself. In RS it was the event management, which went very smoothly while RS lasted, now I chose somewhere similar along the lines – basic human interaction. I knew this doesn’t sound like a hobby. But it was an important enough skill that I needed to be good at. So I started with talking more, to people around me. In fact I had the perfect idea for this, I had known a person over online for a long time by then and I asked her to have a face to face meet up. I had never done something of such manner ever, and wanted to get an experience out of it. It went great too. We got to talk about our problems and what was going on with us at the moment. Although I didn’t get to have meet ups like these till the end of the year again, but I did make sure most of the time that I had someone with me all the time I was free in between classes. This brought me even closer to being open up to people and make me act like an extrovert when I needed to.

I was hardly ever sitting alone. For this I must say that I am really grateful to handful people. I spent most of my time with my closest friend from college life who got into BRACU one semester after me. We had almost similar schedule, we got to spend a lot of our time together. Also there is one friend I made from my last CSE course, and I’d also hang out with her sometimes. A lot of the times there would also be some other people joining in. I would also sometimes help out some of my other friends at solving their academic problems occasionally. This was a clear practice of the fact that 2 person solving 2 person’s worth of problems is more efficient than 1 person solving his alone. I also made a very fascinating discovery. In the past, whenever I did better-than-average in any academic or in extra-curricular stage, there would be a group of people trying to defame/ discourage me from so, saying it’s not worth it and alike. But here it was not like that. In all of my new classes this semester, there were a considerable number of seniors present even. Here I did not find anyone ever trying to disrespect or alienate me. I was definitely laid back in this semester; the courses were my type, the teachers I had good understanding with and the classes showed me good respect. I saw it as a mean of treating myself, since I was too worked up on RS.

Following the wave as they come, a new programming contest popped up, I obviously signed up with some of my friends that I had made on the first semester. This was my second contest in life, and I was excited although ready to accept defeat if it asked too much. It was almost going well, until, well until I stopped thinking straight, we had three people on group to work on one computer. There were 7 problems; we went through the first 4 really fast. The next three, we separated to all three. Now the problem I ended up with turned out really difficult. But I desperately kept trying again and again. On the other hand, I gave key points to solving the other two their problems, but never actually let them sit on the computer to try and submit their solutions. It was shameful, as the team that came first, was my very dear friends, solving 5 out of 7 problems. If I made the call to give up at the right moment, we could have solved 6 out of 7. But I did not let it mess with me that much and moved on from that guilt within the next couple of days. However, the day after this contest was another day to remember.

It was my birthday. The day I never really spent well, but appreciated anyway. But this year was different. This was the first time, even though I was suspicious of them doing something prior to the revelation, I had been totally blown away by the scale of their affection. It was a forced surprise party, but it was a surprise of how far they went. They were not a lot in count, but they tried everything they could to make me a happier. It was also (sort of) the first time I had to receive gifts that were meant for me, and I didn’t have to ask for them. They gifted me my first pieces of anime merchandise. I can’t say it was my best day of the year, but it was a good day, we later went to a lot of places. My name didn’t fit on the cake though :P .

Then came December and it was time for the finals I took a gamble on my CSE exam, I followed two different ways that I thought could potentially be correct. I was sitting with both the answers for about half an hour; I went with my gut feeling and cancelled my first answer. The discrete math exam was also easy in comparison to what I was expecting. I had my Statistics and Math finals on the same day. Before my finals, I had lost 6 marks on statistics and 9 marks on math out of 60 where the finals were out of 40, making total 100. First was the Statistics exam that day. I can’t say I wasn’t stressed. I had done some extremely simple mistakes that I realized just after leaving the exam hall. I gave my Math exam two hours later. I was very cautious to not to make such errors; I was satisfied with the test afterwards. My family decided to take me to a tour on the last week of December. So I wasn’t able see my scripts personally, but, I got to know my final marks. On the CSE course, I scored 114(Grade A). I scored 98(Grade A) on discrete math (CSE230). These were my best subjects and there wasn’t anyone even close to my marks. On the other hand, I got 87(Grade A-) in Statistics and 91(Grade A) in Math. This brought a new level of confidence within me. With this, my CGPA reached 3.9 - making me eligible for a waiver of 50% for the next semesters. Therefore, I had also bitten off a good chunk from my tuition bills now.

Over this last year, everything that I had gone through because of BRACU - was hardly ever negative. The time spent here was definitely different. I had my own loses personally, sure, but the only way the university influenced those loses was just by supporting me. I don’t know how much, but I know I have changed. I am definitely not starting this new semester with a heavy mind full of just memories of failures like last year – it’s completely the other way around. I am hoping for more, greedily, I want a lot more of this. I am glad I suffered through the admission trials and then chose BRACU. It’s definitely not the best institution, but it was enough for me.

Dear reader, congratulations! You have successfully reached the end of my pointless story.  

> The most notable and repeated lesson I learned was about moving on and moving forward. As long as I can still look forward, there is always a way to leap forward, there is no absolute end.

